You’ve been asked by the Garda to assist in helping to retrieve some hashed passwords. They have managed
to get a dump of one of the database tables, however they still need the original passwords and have been
unable to crack them themselves and have called in your help.
The issue seems to be that the database is only storing the password hashes, and so far their attempts to
brute force the passwords have failed.
They have tried their standard rainbow tables without success and suspect that the passwords may have
been salted. A brief analysis of the hashes supports this belief and indicates that all the passwords have been
hashed with the same salt.
2 Lab Tasks
2.1 Task 1: Can you help the Garda and crack any of the salted hashed passwords?
Some potentially useful information from the Garda case files:
 - The password policy file was changed in May 2010, passwords created after this date are
 alphanumeric 5-7 characters in length.
 - Passwords created before these dates are believed to have consisted of only digits and 5-7
 characters in length.
 - It’s believed that all passwords have used the same salt, and that the value is somewhere in our
 data. (In this document!!)
 - The database dump was from a MySQL database.
 - The site’s domain name where the garda extracted all the files and databse dump from is
 www.exploringsecurity.com (no need to visit or do anything on this actual website)
Secure Communication and Cryptography: Lab – Salted Hashes 2
 - Some of the captured JavaScript code from the site, reveals the salt format as
 CommonHash($salt,$pass)
 - Retrieve as much information as you can from the dump below for the Garda
There are plenty of methods and tools you can use to solve this challenge, including scripting it yourself or
researching and finding a good tool for brute forcing hashes. You'll need to read the case information
carefully for clues and plan your strategy of attack to maximize your chances of recovering as many
passwords as possible.
3 Submission
You need to submit a detailed lab report, with screenshots, to describe what you have done and what you
have observed. You also need to provide explanation to the observations that are interesting or surprising.
Please also list the important code snippets followed by explanation. Simply attaching code without any
explanation will not receive credits.